cracking open the box of your Scout
Junior you will start by removing a foam
block from the center and two foam
pieces protecting the arm and table
during shipment set the bag of hardware
goodies to the side and carefully pull
the chassis out of the box remove the
power cord and motor while being mindful
of the pulley hidden under the last
piece of foam you'll find the aluminum
record platter that you can set to the
side for now while we get ready for the
final placement of the table getting
things started the right way begins with
making sure your Scout juniors making
its way to a solid surface in fact now
is a great time to grab a level and make
sure we get this party started on a good
note make sure you check all directions
of your stand table or whatever the heck
you decide to use for your Scout Junior
just make sure that bubble is smack-dab
right in the middle VPI recommends
placing the Scout Junior on a 1 to 3
inch thick maple shelf sitting on
isolation feed I happen to have a pretty
solid audio rack but I also like using a
second shelf for better isolation bottom
line consider your options and do what
works best for you grab the chassis with
both hands and carefully place it with a
cutout to your left this is where the
motor will eventually go carefully place
the platter on the spindle while holding
the platter steady and take note of
today's date why because next year you
might need to lubricate the platter
bearing with three drops of 40 weight
motor oil in the spindle hole connect
the power cord to the motor and place it
in the cutout of the chassis lift the
back of the chassis over the power cord
and feel free to plug everything in
grabbing a tape measure or ruler the
motor should be placed approximately 1/4
inch from the turntable chassis grab
your belt from the bag of goodies and
place it on the platter and pullian
don't worry about if it's not lined up
perfectly it will fix itself as soon as
we fire up the motor grab the level you
are using before and let's see how the
table is looking place in a level near
the center of the platter as possible
spend the platter and adjust as needed
using the Scout juniors aluminum feet if
you find yourself turning the feet more
than two to three rotations take another
look at the shelf to make sure the table
it sits on is actually level feel free
to grab a set of shielded interconnect
cables and plug them into the
back of the table folks we're about
ready to rock and roll now that you
completely dominated setting up your
Scout Junior let's play some records
feel free to remove the stylus card by
pressing the tab towards you and the
guard will pop off without any force
carefully swing the arm above the record
lower the lever to the downward position
without feeling the need to stop as yarm
Goes Down and give yourself a pat on the
back you are playing your first record
on your brand-new Scout Junior now that
we are up and running with playing
standard 33s how the heck do we play a
45 glad you asked because it couldn't
get any easier simply move the belt from
one pulley groove to the other and
presto easy as that both the arm height
and azimuth are already set up for you
by the good guys of epi
for those that want to make your own
adjustments the Scout junior has you
covered for VTA you need to be able to
carefully prop up the table to get
underneath all you're doing here is
removing the first nut and ground wire
while loosening up the second nut using
an allen wrench you can now adjust VTA
to your own preference rotating the
screw clockwise will raise the back of
the arm while counter clockwise lowers
it checking and adjusting azimuth is
just as easy as VTA grab yourself a
coffee straw and looking straight at the
car you can get an idea if adjustments
need to be made using an Allen wrench
adjust the azimuth by loosening the side
screws on the arm tube and carefully
rotating the arm after making your
adjustments and you are happy with how
things look and sound tighten up those
screws on the side of the arm and you
are good to go
if you thought this was going to be
complicated you know playing a record is
as peaceful as lighting a campfire
setting up your turntable is not the
part where you're lost in the woods 25
miles away from base camp fall down a
cliff break both your legs get mauled by
a bear end up in a coma in six months
later waking up to aunt Linda's bad
breath and a get-well card with
choo-choo trains on it know using VP is
common sense methods you're going to be
spinning wax in no time if you do happen
to have
the other questions you can jump on to
VPI industries comm click on the link
for forums and many other people myself
included would be happy to answer any
other questions that you might have
until then enjoy your new turntable and
enjoy your records